# HelloESP8266
This is a minimalistic project aimed to show basic [CMake](https://cmake.org) setup steps required for programming of the ESP8266 chip. The core approach used here was initially based on the [rzajac assembly](https://github.com/rzajac/esp-dev-env.git).  

ESP8266 chip has an Xtensa processor architecture. Xtensa strongly differs from the architectures present in common PC's. It means that compilation of the same C/C++ code would produce absolutely different binaries for your PC and Xtensa. Compilation for the different architecture on the host machine (computer that is used for compilation) is called cross-compilation. For many popular microcontroller architectures, for example ARM processors, required cross-compilation tools can be easily installed using system package manager. However, there is no such case yet for ESP8266 implementation of Xtensa. 

One of the strongest cross-compilation toolsets known for the moment is [crosstool-NG](https://crosstool-ng.github.io/). This project sopports many architectures including Xtensa, however out of the box ESP8266 support could not be provided by crosstool-NG group because of the flexibility of Xtensa and many variations of it's implementation in different microcontrollers. As a consequence, Max Filippov created a [crosstool-NG fork](https://github.com/jcmvbkbc/crosstool-NG) that was especially oriented to the Xtensa chips including ESP8266. However, even the Max Filippov's project is too generic to start with a concrete chip. It contains just a forked crosstool-NG that is a pure GCC-based compiler and does not include any chip specific API-s. The complete toolset for ESP8266 is collected within [Paul Sokolovsky's open-esp-sdk](https://github.com/pfalcon/esp-open-sdk) project. Clean installation of the open-esp-sdk is the only requirement for HelloESP8266 and this is the point where we start the discussion.

Open-esp-sdk is distributed as a source code and shell be compiled before it's usage. It's compilation can be not a trivial task for different Linux distributions (MacOS and Windows are not considered for the moment). An example of it's installation for Debian/Ubuntu families is present on the open-esp-sdk project page, however it may depend on the operating system version. For this reason we support two different scenario of the open-esp-sdk installation. The first one and the most desirable - is the manual compilation of the open-esp-sdk on the host machine. If it was successful, __just create a symlink called `open-esp-sdk` within HelloESP8266 cloned folder that points onto the open-esp-sdk__. 

*NOTE*:
As long as `esp-open-sdk` folder is supposed to be inside of a project tree, in CLion it should de excluded:
project_tree->esp-open-sdk->Mark Directory as->Excluded. This operation will speed-up considerably automatic indexing process during each build.

In the case of any problems with `open-esp-sdk` compilation we suggest the other possibility: compilation of the open-esp-sdk within the Fedora based [docker](https://hub.docker.com/r/larsks/esp-open-sdk/dockerfile) container. The second possibility is absolutely stable and controllable. However, in this case ESP8266 code should be compiled within docker container that is not the default case yet for CMake scripts present here (under development).
